# CSRF introduction
## 1 what is CSRF
## 2 How to Prevent CSRF Vulnerabilities
We recommend token based CSRF defense (either stateful/stateless) as a primary defense to mitigate CSRF in your applications. Only for highly sensitive operations, we also recommend a user interaction based protection (either re-authentication/one-time token, detailed in section 6.5) along with token based mitigation.

As a defense-in-depth measure, consider implementing one mitigation from Defense in Depth Mitigations section (you can choose the mitigation that fits your ecosystem considering the issues mentioned under them). These defense-in-depth mitigation techniques are not recommended to be used by themselves (without token based mitigation) for mitigating CSRF in your applications.
### 2.1 Synchronizer Token Pattern
Any state changing operation requires a secure random token (e.g., CSRF token) to prevent CSRF attacks. A CSRF token should be unique per user session, large random value, and also generated by a cryptographically secure random number generator. The CSRF token is added as a hidden field for forms, headers/parameters for AJAX calls (It is recommended to add in parameter than in header. If you need to add it to header, it is better to make sure that the token header is not being logged at your server) and within the URL if the state changing operation occurs via a GET. See "Disclosure of Token in URL" section below. The server rejects the requested action if the CSRF token fails validation.
### 2.2 Encryption based Token Pattern
After successful authentication, the server generates a unique token comprised of the user's ID, a timestamp value and a [nonce](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_nonce), using a unique key available only on the server. This token is returned to the client and embedded in a hidden field for forms, in the request-header/parameter for AJAX requests. On receipt of this request, the server reads and decrypts the token value with the same key used to create the token. Inability to correctly decrypt suggest an intrusion attempt. Once decrypted, the UserId and timestamp contained within the token are validated; the UserId is compared against the currently logged in user, and the timestamp is compared against the current time.
### HMAC Based Token Pattern
[HMAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC) is a cryptographic function that helps to guarantee integrity and authentication of a message. It is another way that CSRF mitigation can be achieved without maintaining any state at the server. 

Generate the token using HMAC including all four fields mentioned previously (user's ID, a timestamp value, nonce, and operation) and then include it in hidden fields for form tags, headers/parameters for ajax calls. Once you receive the HMAC from the client in the requests, re-generate HMAC with the same fields that you used to generate it, and then verify that the HMAC you re-generated matches the HMAC received from the client. If it does, it is a legitimate user request and if it does not, flag it as a CSRF intrusion and alert your incident response teams. Because an attacker has no visibility into the key used for generating the hash fields used in generating it, there is no way for them to re-generate it to use in forged request.

# References
<https://github.com/OWASP/CheatSheetSeries/blob/master/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.md>
